####Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?
I have always been interested in math and science, probably because they always just made sense to me.  In high school, the scheduled computer class was data entry.  My math teacher had the vision to see that programming would be far more important and petitioned to have an after-school class.  I signed up for this first programming class; the language was Basic.  In college, I learned Fortran and used cards to submit my programs for batch processing.  When I was expecting my first child, I took a C++ class.  Though many things changed through each of these experiences, one thing stayed the same.  Creating a program is like solving a puzzle.  This problem solving aspect is what makes me interested in programming.  As an engineer, the most fun I had at work was when I was solving a problem, especially if the problem had an urgency.  In any class, the puzzle is an intellectual one and the urgency is mostly about due dates.  I believe that programming as a career will provide these puzzles and have the added excitement of having a real life application.

####What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?
For the next 2 years, my professional goals are very straight forward.  First, I’d like to learn a new skill in a technical area. Though I have a technical background, I have not been employed in a technical area for several years.  I believe that adding a new skill will greatly enhance my employability.  The Ada Developers Academy is an extraordinary opportunity to achieve this goal in a structured way.  My second near term goal is to obtain employment in software development to “master” the skill.  My 5 year professional goals are not quite as specific. I have always been interested.  My experience leading a PTSA and volunteering in public school classrooms reinforced this idea.  Through these experiences, I have seen the reality of girls shying away from STEM classes.  I’ve encouraged my daughters and their friends to take these classes and consider these careers.  I would love to be able to work as an instructor with an organization like “Girls Who Code”, combining my interests in STEM and teaching with the advocacy for women in technology.

####Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?
A great source of mistakes was when I agreed to be president of an elementary PTSA.  Our board met monthly at school, with the principal and a teacher.  At one regular meeting, our treasurer expressed concern about the rate of our fundraising and suggested we have another meeting focused on fundraising, hosted in a home.  It was a relaxed atmosphere, and I thought everyone was excited to work on the issue and moving in the same direction.  After an hour, the fundraising chair got up and left, visibly upset.  In retrospect, I realized that she’d felt the rest of the board was trespassing in her area, and criticizing her personally.  She was partially right because that was what the treasurer thought, but the treasurer was also right because the fundraising chair was delinquent in some of her duties.  The lessons are multiple – group dynamics are complicated, people have different motivations and energy levels and different ways of demanding accountability.  If I encountered a situation like this again, I would start with defining expectation, and setting metrics.  The informal nature of teams lead to wanting to skip this step, but a little time invested up front almost always pays off later.

####Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.
“Of course!” was my first reason to this question because I really believe that life is about teaching yourself things daily.  But that’s too general an answer.  I rephrased the question to “Have you taught yourself to DO anything and how”.  My answer was still “Of course,” but it’s less frequent because doing things requires will and action.  My process is 1) gather information, 2) gather materials, and 3) act - though many time there’s a loop back to 1 and 2 and some undoing of the action.  The latest thing I taught myself was how to ship a bike to Chicago.  First, I research costs – several hundred if FedEx did it, about $60 if I packaged it.  Then, I found several YouTube videos about how to semi-disassemble and package a bike.  Third, I gathered my materials – a free, used box from the local bike shop, duct and packaging tape, Allen wrenches, a can of WD-40.  I searched for inspiration in the aisles of Home Depot and found cheap pipe insulation I could use for padding.  Finally, I was ready to act.  After 2 hours in my garage and multiple viewing of YouTube experts, but finally I was done and headed to FedEx.

